start-here/README.md, before:

# Start here

## Purpose

You will rarely see me talk about metrics, that isn't my purpose. The goal of this starter kit is to get you going on your Cloud YouTube journey. The focus is on making quality authentic content and build a video portfolio of your knowledge and not make you into the next YouTube sensation.

## Motivation

At the beginning no one will watch you, no one will share, and no one will care. Accept it and realize that it's actually a good thing. When you're getting started, you have all the creative freedom to figure your content and style out. As you grow, your audience will have certain expectations and you'll have to balance creating what you want and what they want. When you start, you have none of that, you're just making, and that's true liberty right there :)

However, I know without people watching and providing feedback, it's hard to stay motivated. You'll be thinking "is it even worth it" or "I put in so much work and no one is watching". These thoughts are normal. Whenever I get into this state of mind (and yes no matter where you are at in your journey, you'll have these thoughts) I remind myself of the previous step, purpose. I'm building my video portfolio of knowledge, and no matter who watches, nothing can stop it, but myself.

Further more, I'll try to build this so your time commitment and necessary gear will be minimal, so no more "I don't have the time or gear" excuses, you can do this.

## Gear and software

Please do not rush to Amazon and purchase brand new gear, you might already have everything you need. The most basic setup and GOOD ENOUGH includes:

- Camera.
- Microphone.
- Laptop.

### Camera

Chances are you already have a usb webcam. Most are decent and can record in HD. This is good enough for your first videos. Again, the goal here is to build momentum, I find that new gear is fun but usually kills momentum because I have to spend time learning it. I think my first 15 videos were recorded with a Logitech c920.

If you don't have a webcam, you probably have a phone with a decent camera. You can use that.

### Microphone

Do you have a external microphone? If so, great move to the next step, if not, let's figure this out.

First of all, decent audio is important, even more important than decent video.

You might have a pair of good headphones that have a microphone, you can try that.

Here's the tricky part, I don't want to tell you what to buy, and with audio there are so many options. All I can say is you'll need a microphone and USB mics have less of a learning curve than xlr mics (these require audio interfaces).

[Take a look at this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jApDthzDql0) it has solid options for every budget. Once you have one, move on. 

### Software

You'll need something to record your screen and to edit videos with.

#### Screen recording

There are many options but the one I use, I love, and is free, [OBS](https://obsproject.com/)! It's a fantastic and capable software you can use to record from your camera, your screen, audio, and even live stream. For screen recording, check out this [tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ySENWFIkL7c).

#### Video editing

Another area with endless options, my recommendation is DaVinci resolve, it's free and very capable, you most likely won't ever need to upgrade to anything because it's already top tier. Here is a solid [tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=63Ln33O4p4c).

If you already edit video and have a software you enjoy, continue using that, no need to change.

## Time commitment

For each day, I'll provide a time estimate at the top, but I don't think you'll ever need more than 2 hours a day and you will get better and quicker with time.

You can of course put in more time.

Also, I know this says 7 days, with the goal being to publish 1 video a week and have 1 day off, but you can choose to do more or less, I just want to get you started with a manageable time line and don't want you to burn out or hate the process.

When I was getting started, I posted a video a week for several months, sometimes 2 videos, now I barely get a video done every other week, I suspect that'll change though. Your journey and time is uniquely yours, respect it and yourself.

## Video structure

The goal is to make 1 video a week, about 10 - 15 minutes in duration and structured this way:

- intro: take about 1-2 minutes to introduce your topic here.
- demo: take about 8-10 minutes on your demo.
- outro: recap what you've covered and share anything else you'd like for about 1-2 minutes.

### Why 10 - 15 minutes?

I find this is the sweet spot for YouTube tutorials in terms of length people enjoy AND work you have to put in. Sure you could make longer videos, but again our focus is to kick start our journey and avoid burnout. You can increase/decrease the length as you go.

### Why intro-demo-outro format?

I think this format works well and is pretty standard. It's also easy to follow for the audience.

## Okay, start with day 1

Alright, we're about ready to get started with day 1. Promise me you read all of this though.

[Go to day 1](../day1/README.md)

Commit message:

Added tripod to gear list

start-here/README.md, after:

# Start here

## Purpose

You will rarely see me talk about metrics, that isn't my purpose. The goal of this starter kit is to get you going on your Cloud YouTube journey. The focus is on making quality authentic content and build a video portfolio of your knowledge and not make you into the next YouTube sensation.

## Motivation

At the beginning no one will watch you, no one will share, and no one will care. Accept it and realize that it's actually a good thing. When you're getting started, you have all the creative freedom to figure your content and style out. As you grow, your audience will have certain expectations and you'll have to balance creating what you want and what they want. When you start, you have none of that, you're just making, and that's true liberty right there :)

However, I know without people watching and providing feedback, it's hard to stay motivated. You'll be thinking "is it even worth it" or "I put in so much work and no one is watching". These thoughts are normal. Whenever I get into this state of mind (and yes no matter where you are at in your journey, you'll have these thoughts) I remind myself of the previous step, purpose. I'm building my video portfolio of knowledge, and no matter who watches, nothing can stop it, but myself.

Further more, I'll try to build this so your time commitment and necessary gear will be minimal, so no more "I don't have the time or gear" excuses, you can do this.

## Gear and software

Please do not rush to Amazon and purchase brand new gear, you might already have everything you need. The most basic setup and GOOD ENOUGH includes:

- Camera and maybe a camera mic.
- Microphone.
- Laptop.
- Tripod (could also use a stack of books, but you can find decent tripods for ~ 20 USD)

### Camera and camera mic

You'll use these for your non demo footage. Intros and conclusions and such. 

Chances are you already have a usb webcam. Most are decent and can record in HD. This is good enough for your first videos. Again, the goal here is to build momentum, I find that new gear is fun but usually kills momentum because I have to spend time learning it. I think my first 15 videos were recorded with a Logitech c920.

If you're using a webcam, you'll use your USB or XLR mic to record audio.

If you don't have a webcam, you probably have a phone with a decent camera. You can use that.

If you are using an external camera, you'll need a microphone for it because the mics on cameras are TERRIBLE.

[Check out this video for affordable options](https://youtu.be/MUSIfUlOjYA). Most camera support an external microphone via a mic jack, but double check please and if you're using a phone, you might need an adapter, so verify that too.

### Tripod

You can find decent tripods for ~ 25 USD, so I think it's a no brainer owning one if you are going to use a camera that isn't a webcam. There are so many options, I have one from amazon I got 4 years ago for $20 and it still works great. Time for some googling :)

### Microphone

Do you have a external microphone? If so, great move to the next step, if not, let's figure this out.

First of all, decent audio is important, even more important than decent video.

You might have a pair of good headphones that have a microphone, you can try that. It's all about trial and error here and it can get frustrating. 

Here's the tricky part, I don't want to tell you what to buy, and with audio there are so many options. All I can say is you'll need a microphone and USB mics have less of a learning curve than xlr mics (these require audio interfaces).

[Take a look at this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jApDthzDql0) it has solid options for every budget. Once you have one, move on.

### Software

You'll need something to record your screen and to edit videos with.

#### Screen recording

There are many options but the one I use, I love, and is free, [OBS](https://obsproject.com/)! It's a fantastic and capable software you can use to record from your camera, your screen, audio, and even live stream. For screen recording, check out this [tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ySENWFIkL7c).

#### Video editing

Another area with endless options, my recommendation is DaVinci resolve, it's free and very capable, you most likely won't ever need to upgrade to anything because it's already top tier. Here is a solid [tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=63Ln33O4p4c).

If you already edit video and have a software you enjoy, continue using that, no need to change.

## Time commitment

For each day, I'll provide a time estimate at the top, but I don't think you'll ever need more than 2 hours a day and you will get better and quicker with time.

You can of course put in more time.

Also, I know this says 7 days, with the goal being to publish 1 video a week and have 1 day off, but you can choose to do more or less, I just want to get you started with a manageable time line and don't want you to burn out or hate the process.

When I was getting started, I posted a video a week for several months, sometimes 2 videos, now I barely get a video done every other week, I suspect that'll change though. Your journey and time is uniquely yours, respect it and yourself.

## Video structure

The goal is to make 1 video a week, about 10 - 15 minutes in duration and structured this way:

- intro: take about 1-2 minutes to introduce your topic here.
- demo: take about 8-10 minutes on your demo.
- outro: recap what you've covered and share anything else you'd like for about 1-2 minutes.

### Why 10 - 15 minutes?

I find this is the sweet spot for YouTube tutorials in terms of length people enjoy AND work you have to put in. Sure you could make longer videos, but again our focus is to kick start our journey and avoid burnout. You can increase/decrease the length as you go.

### Why intro-demo-outro format?

I think this format works well and is pretty standard. It's also easy to follow for the audience.

## Okay, start with day 1

Alright, we're about ready to get started with day 1. Promise me you read all of this though.

[Go to day 1](../day1/README.md)
